form potential
researchers about Freedom capabilities, plans and opportunities for
research and to provide an open forum for exchange of information and
ideas between space station managers and potential space station
investigators.  As part of the forum, experienced researchers who have
flown equipment aboard Spacelab will describe their experiences and
learned lessons.  Further information on the conference can be obtained
from Barry Epstein, NASA Headquarters, 202/453-8203, or Deb Gilman, BDM
International, at 202/479- 5250.

The seven astronauts scheduled to fly aboard Endeavour for its
September Spacelab-Japan science mission, Wednesday inspected the
Spacelab module and conducted their final pre-launch inspection of the
module's experiment racks.  The crew entered Endeavour and then using
the airlock tunnel, crawled into the Spacelab for their inspection.
The next milestone for that mission is expected to occur mid-August
when Endeavour is moved from the Orbiter Processing Facility to the
Vehicle Assembly Building.

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

In yesterday's edition it was not made clear why "star calibrations and
momentum wheel desaturations" are necessary for Magellan if it is not
actively mapping Venus.  The nominal Magellan orbit consists of two
major elementsPa Venus-facing portion and an Earth-facing portion.
Magellan maneuvers back and forth during each orbit to accommodate the
Venus- facing requirement for radar mapping and the Earth-facing
requirement for transmission of the radar data.  Magellan uses three
reaction wheels, or gyroscopes, to control the spacecraft's attitude in
relation to Venus.

There is one reaction wheel for each of the spacecraft's three axes P
yaw, pitch and roll.  To counteract a spacecraft motion in one of these
axes, the gyro for that axis is spun up.  The reaction wheels, driven
by electric motors, are used to store momentum while they are
spinning.  During each orbit, Magellan's thruster motors are fired to
counteract the torque being applied to the spacecraft as the gyroscopes
are then despun.  Despinning eliminates momentum which had been stored
during the orbit.  This process is referred to as "momentum wheel
desaturation."

During this same orbital period, Magellan uses its onboard star
trackers to look at the position of two stars and compare their
location with its onboard star map.  This allows the attitude and
guidance system to maintain a fix relative to Venus.  These two
operations are executed routinely each orbit.  During Magellan's
current operating sequence, the radar instrument and data recording
systems are not being used while Jet Propulsion Laboratory flight
controllers determine the best procedure for using the spacecraft's
high-rate data transmitter system.

There are several sections of the planetary surface which have not yet
been mapped and JPL Magellan controllers are fine tuning procedures
which will be used later this summer to ensure that data of those
regions are transmitted with the least likelihood of noise or other
problems corrupting the data.  In the meantime, Magellan's orbital
housekeeping functions such as star calibrations and gyro despinning
continue nominally.

Here's the broadcast schedule for Public Affairs events on NASA Select
TV.  Note that all events and times may change without notice, and that
all times listed are Eastern.  Live indicates a program is transmitted
live.

Friday, July 31, 1992
Live    6:00 am  Launch coverage of Atlantis for STS-46 Tethered Satellite and
                 Eureca deploy mission begins from KSC.
Li