s Monday;
 % Oshkosh Air Show begins today,  NASP 50-foot mockup featured;
 % Marshall to host Space Station Freedom users conference next week;
 % STS-47 flight crew inspects Endeavour & Spacelab-Japan experiments.

Like clockwork, Atlantis lifted off this morning right on time at 9:56
am EDT to begin the STS-46 mission.  The ascent into exceptionally
clear Florida skies was absolutely nominal.  First and second stage
performance were right on the money.  Atlantis is now in a circular
267-statute-mile-high orbit.  The flight crew will spend the afternoon
activating the European Space Agency's European Retrievable Carrier
spacecraft and then deploy it from the payload bay early tomorrow
morning.  On Sunday, the STS-46 crew will begin to carry out a series
of experiments with the Tethered Satellite System.  The Italian-built
TSS satellite will be deployed on Monday.  This will be the first time
a satellite has ever been deployed on a long tether in space.  The
Tethered Satellite will be extended to a distance of 12-1/2 miles from
Atlantis.

Mission commander for this flight is Loren Shriver, who is making his
third shuttle flight.  Pilot is first-timer Andy Allen.  Mission
specialists for the flight are NASA astronauts Marsha Ivins, making her
second flight, and Jeff Hoffman and Franklin Chang-Diaz, both making
their third flights, and ESA astronaut Claude Nicollier, making his
first flight.  Franco Malerba, Italian Space Agency, is the payload
specialist for this mission, his first flight.

The Tethered Satellite System will be used in a series of tests to
determine if it is feasible to use such a system for generating
electricity for such structures as Space Station Freedom.  When the
Tethered Satellite is fully deployed, the combination of Tethered
Satellite a