                Ltd 50.00-52.00          V Ltd 45.00
    Garbanzo (54/58s)         Not Established      Not Established 

BEAN MARKET SUMMARY

BEANS

    Dry Edible Bean market activity has picked up in recent weeks with the most 
active being noted on Pinto and Black beans with the increased demand from Mexico.  
However, this week trading became slow at current price levels, as some participants 
were waiting on the Government purchases to be announced later this week on the 2630 
MT of pinto beans. There is concern in the Great Northern market due very light 
demand for heavy supply. Uncertainty, among buyers and sellers has been caused the 
unsettled market conditions.   However, as more classes are starting be posted at 
the grower levels, markets began to establish.   All prices quoted are quoted on 
very limited trading.  PINTOS were generally steady, a firm undertone in ND on the 
dealer level; grower levels steady.  GREAT NORTHERNS were not established at either 
the dealer or grower level in all regions due to no demand for heavy offerings.  
SMALL WHITES were not established at either the dealer or grower level.  LIGHT RED 
KIDNEYS dealer levels steady in very limited trading; not established at grower 
levels.  DARK RED KIDNEYS were not established at either the dealer or grower level.  
PINKS WA/ID dealer and grower level steady; ND/MN not established at either dealer 
or grower levels.  SMALL REDS dealer levels steady; MI grower levels steady, 38.00 
to 39.00 in ID and 42.00 to 43.00 in WA.  BLACK BEANS were steady at both the dealer 
and grower levels.  CRANBERRY BEANS were not established at either the dealer or 
grower level.  PEA BEANS were steady in MI, no recent test in ND on either dealer; 
grower levels steady.  GARBANZOS were mostly steady, with the range narrowing on the 
deal levels; grower levels steady.
      
PEAS AND LENTILS MARKET SUMMARY

    DEALER MARKET:  Trading activity was light to moderate.  ID Peas and Lentil 
prices were steady to firm; ND Green peas had no recent test to compare.  Business 
was slowed due to the most recent government invitation which awards will be 
announced later this week.  The invitation accounts for about 18, 020 MT of peas and 
lentils. Yellow splits, wholes and Green whole peas make up the majority of the 
tonnage.

    GROWER MARKET:     Market activity moderate.  Green and Yellow Peas levels are 
steady.  Pardina and Brewer lentils were steady.  ND grower prices started coming 
back on the board this week as growers were looking at the recent government 
invention that is due tomorrow.  Up to this point the only 